e e
just checking the
audio all right so we are looking at the
the difference between cfds which are
not legally traded in America so all you
gurus out there that show your multiple
mt4 screenshots of the same
Market you got 50,000
per per profit line nobody believes that
crap but uh you pretend pretend is fun
right
so for the folks that are outside the US
but you want to learn what it is I'm
teaching with the Futures Market how can
you participate how can you be a a
player if you will and reading price
action and learning how to do that so if
we know
that I am not going to be trading the
cfds I won't even push the button on
that okay I'm not going to do that um
but it's not necessary that I do because
I'm going to show you exactly how to do
everything you see me dealing with the
Futures
Contract the
cfds they trade in you know 20 247 they
go around the clock there's a
separation with
uh the settlement price at 4:14 p.m.
eastern time and then there is the 930
opening and we can see that relatively
easy when we're looking at the reg
treating hours so right now I'm looking
at the micro e mini NASDAQ this is for
December's
contract and I'm going to show you the
recording I'm not sure what was going on
with the
uh Twitter or X app this morning I I
tried to show the recording of me
executing this morning and all the
business I'm about to show you uh but I
don't know why it wouldn't it wouldn't
let me upload it so I don't know if I'm
on the bad list over there or what but
uh it'll be part of Caleb's Channel
upload tonight so that way you can watch
it there it's just it's going to be a
real brief thing but I kind of like want
to outline it here and also show you the
same similar things that's shown in acfd
for Nasdaq
so if you're not an American and you can
trade through like a Forex
broker I'm not trading Forex anymore I'm
not enticing you to trade Forex I'm not
trying to tell you you should trade that
I'm not telling you you should trade the
cfds but if you can can't follow along
with the actual Futures Market you can
get as close as you can but they're not
going to Mark the market and I'll mean
I'll show you what that means in a
moment but they're close enough for you
to do studies let's say it that way okay
so we can all agree that we're just
studying price action I'm not trying to
give you trade advice I'm not trying to
give you investment advice but this is
how you bridge the gap between the two
okay so that way you're not out like
orphans ICT left us we're in Forex and
he's trading futures we don't trade
Futures anymore cfds you can trade them
wherever you're at if you're not in
America you can probably trade them now
are some there are some countries that
are cracking down and making it illegal
for people to do it at all okay and I
talked about that in Twitter spaces
about a year ago so you might want to
think about that but
the the mini contract for Nasdaq every
handle move that means four ticks up or
down it's taking or adding to your
account in the amount of $20 US dollar
in a micro it's $2 for every four ticks
or one handle so a handle would be like
20,000 01 0
to
20,011
and if you were long one contract that
would be one increase of a handle or
four ticks or $20 if it went one tick
I'm sorry four ticks below your entry in
your long you would be debited Market to
Market negative $20 for a micro it's
only $2 so it affords the the student to
focus and study in this medium not the
mini okay and for all of you that are
trading in these phone account company
things if you're not using this like I'm
showing you're really doing it wrong
because you're gambling I don't care who
you are I don't care if it hurts your
feelings you're literally gambling when
my sons did it they gambled they they
were overleveraged they were trading
more than they should have and the
amount of money they give you that could
be technically lost is such an infantile
amount it's so minuscule it's little and
you don't have the skill set I'm sorry
you don't have the skill set to be
consistently able to go up against that
as close as you can without going over
it without drawing the account down or
blowing it out and then having to pay
the reset fees you can beat these
companies you can beat them consistently
but you have to do it with a shoestring
budget approach like trading the
micros and what I'm showing you here
today all of you I'm in my opinion all
of you could can do what I'm about to
show you today that's my that's my
personal opinion and I'm welcome to that
you may not agree with that but it's
it's my opinion but before we get into
let me just quick here yeah fine
the
um I mentioned on Twitter I'm going to
slow down on Twitter I just went over
there to rabble rouss for a little while
I've had fun but the
uh the tweet I put out this morning I
said that we would likely see a limp
opening that means it's anemic it's not
it doesn't have any kind of real
excitement and it's because we don't see
a large gap between where we settled at
4:15 or 4:14 p.m. eastern time
yesterday to where we open up at 9 9:30
here today so if we click
on regular trading
hours this Candlestick right there here
that is the 414 p.m. Thursday September
19th 2024's settlement price
now it trades for another 45 46 more
minutes and then closes at 5:00 but this
is what you're looking for for the
opening range
Gap if we open and the next Candlestick
shows this 9:30 a.m. today Friday
September 20th
2024 that opening Price sets the stage
for the other parameter for the opening
range Gap so since yesterday's
settlement prices higher than our
opening price today at 930 that means we
have a
discount opening range Gap that means
today's opening price at 9:30 is lower
than where we closed at
now with cfds you don't have this
function here and this is what's caused
a great deal of confusion for everyone
that doesn't have the ability to trade
with Futures so I'm going to show you
how to bridge that in a moment but let
me just walk through this real quick so
that way when you watch the video that
just streams real quick without any
annotation tonight you know that you've
heard it
here and just wait for the
uh Clos captions to appear it takes time
for YouTube to put those on so so so
stop sending me comments and tell me I'm
being mean I'm not being mean but I'm
not typing out a transcript every time I
do a
video all right so here is the
first fair value gu
between 9:30 technically 9:31 to 10:00
that 9:30 to 10:00 is an interval of
time that I dub a opening range so
there's two things occurring here the
opening range gap which is a lower gap
opening which is that Candlestick there
and this
line if we were to scroll all the way to
the left which I'm not going to do would
go right back to yesterday's 4:14 p.m.
eastern time settlement price so it's
this line
here that bold line and this bold line
I'm making as maximum size as I can
between those two price points is the
opening range
gap opening
range which is algorithmic anything less
than this they're they're making up
stuff let's put it that
way this is the first 30 minutes of
trading okay the algorithm is going to
use this range for several things some
of the things I'll teach in 2024
mentorship some of the things I already
mentioned it but they'll be a lot of
things in the book you do not need to
know the things that are going to be in
the book you don't need anything in
those books I've given you enough on
this YouTube channel so it's not a solic
to sell you a book I don't care if you
never buy my books okay I don't care if
you come back and watch my videos ever
again I'm just telling you you don't
need to buy them okay but I want to keep
them or keep the concepts private until
I put them in book form because there's
so many people out there writing books
as I make videos here and teach new
mentorship stuff they're immediately
putting them into print and to me it's a
little irritating because you're not
even giving the you're not getting the
right instructions so I want to do it my
way the correct way and that way if yall
want to write books after the fact I
could care less then but the first fair
value Gap that forms occurs at
9:34 so it meets the minimum criteria of
at least the 931 candle because you
can't use the 930 candle for the initial
fair value Gap or first fair value Gap
presentation between the 9:30 and 10:00
all of these things are still going to
hold true if you trade with the US 100
or the us500 or the
us30 those are cfds cfds
are kind of like a a composite
derivative type little blend of because
they don't have the access to what the
exchanges here do they just try to mimic
it as best they can and for the most
part it's it's good enough okay U
there's Traders like Tom hugard who
trades cfds and he has his own YouTube
channel here he live streams every
single day unless he tells you he's not
going to he trades in the European
session and he trades in the New York
session sometimes and if you want to
watch someone trade a market that is
parallel to the US indices like the
NASDAQ the Dow and S&P you should watch
his channel because he's actually out
there doing it with real money he's he's
taking trades based on the stuff he he's
built as a model for
himself so the 934 first fair value got
here you may have noticed when I was
showing the uh charts on Twitter this
morning or this afternoon rather and you
may have looked at this and said well
you know you're doing this wrong and in
the recording you're going to see it
look like this too what I was doing was
um I know that
it's not going to show a volume
imbalance between these two candlesticks
up here but there is a small one down
here so technically it should look like
this but during the trade I wanted to
see it
like that okay and I'll tell you why
because I want to see when we're in
consolidation like this where it's back
and forth back and forth what this is
okay it's not that it's um lacking
buying and selling it doesn't mean that
there's nobody's willing to buy doesn't
mean that there's a balance of buyers or
sellers it has absolutely nothing to do
with that zero to do with that this is
called time Distortion it's waiting for
a specific time what time is that it's
950 a.m. okay so 950 a.m. to 1010 that
is a algorithmic window of time where
the market will start to spool that
means it's going to run okay so this
initial fair value Gap because we opened
up and you should have this in your
notes as well whenever we open up and if
we have a very small opening range Gap
what is that it's 20 handles and that's
exactly what we had here today as an
opening range Gap because the high of it
which was yesterday's 414 Eastern PM
session settlement
price was
2,55 for the micro MDA for December
contract and then we open today for the
same Market here at
20, 35 even so between those two prices
that's only 20 handles so that's a
really limp or anemic opening Gap it's
not a lot to get excited about plus we
had a large range day yesterday so in
the morning it's going to be a little
bit more difficult and then you compound
that with a Friday where we've already
moved a lot so it's it's going to be a
whole lot more things that's going to go
against you so you have to really stick
to time any the other time if there's a
lot of volatility you don't have to
require my macro times I don't require
my macro times when there's a lot of
volatility but when there's things that
are stacking against you like we have a
small gap opening it's Friday we're at
the end of the week
and well that's enough the uh the small
Gap and large range day yesterday
already puts the the focus on the
morning session is going to be a little
bit more challenging for someone that
doesn't have the experience
so what occurs here is when the Market
opens up at 9:30 it rallies and takes
out a short-term buy side liquidity so
it engages that knocks out anyone that's
already short so they can't capitalize
on that and it puts traders that would
be a buyer Above This Old higher here
that now they're trapped in it long so
they're going to rake them across the co
to this area of sell side so their sell
stops below here so they take traders in
prematurely by taking out this High
there so now they're thinking it's going
to break out keep going
higher it's not the Market's going to
trade yesterday's Gap did not get traded
to to the midpoint and it barely made an
attempt to get down into it so because
it's Friday because it's TGIF TGF is um
a scenario I like to look for for the
weekly range whatever the highest high
and the lowest low is and I'll include
this information in Caleb's video
tonight okay so on his channel what I'm
referring to by TGIF and what that means
and how to determine what that looks
like on your charts I'll show you what
that is it only takes me a minute to do
that but it's likely to see a pull back
on Friday to 20 to 30% of the weekly
range not that it needs to do that but
I'm always looking for something like
that to unfold and because we have a low
um
exciting lack of excitement opening
range Gap because it's only 20 handles
it it's not it's not going to be
requiring
much I guess participation right away so
wait so what it means to me is I'm
looking at that Gap here and I
anticipate that they're going to work
both sides of it back and forth back and
forth back and forth and I'm going to
draw correctly set we can see it real
quick that's what it would look like and
I'll get to the Breakaway Gap in a
second if we know that we have a very
small gap opening and we have a Friday
end of the week and we have a large
range day
yesterday we're going to be opening up
close to what else what what was the
first comment that I was asking you
about today on
Twitter have you extended yesterday's
first presentation fair value gap
between 9:30 and 10:00 that's what this
Orange Box is
here this Orange Box is yesterday
Thursday's first fair value gap between
9:30 or 9:31 to 10 o'clock in the
morning Eastern time the same way this
is for today the first Fair B you
Gap you want to extend them forward and
their life cycles about 3 days now
you're going to find that sometimes
they'll still be useful week two weeks
three weeks ago you know it's it has it
been traded back to okay that's usually
how it works but when we're in a area
where it's going to be ranging around it
and notice that when we were close to
9:30 if you look at what the pre-market
was doing and because we're looking at
Electronic hours down here it's the same
thing if you were looking at your cfd so
if you're looking at the US 100 and I'll
show you a us 100 chart in a minute let
me just get through this part here
because I know you're like I want to see
on a us 100 chart you will but let me
teach the way I want to teach please
some of you are very demanding and very
rude in the comment section and I don't
ever see your comment again so just be
mindful of that I don't mind taking your
your inquiries and your questions and I
can bring that into the conversations
but when I see you being rude or
demanding or entitled I don't ever get
to see your comment ever again you think
I'm going to see it but I can't I block
you from the channel doesn't mean you
can't watch my videos or think you're
leaving comments it just means I'll
never see it
so because we're opening up right here
at 929 a.m. that's electronic trading
hours you already can guess what the
opening price is going to be it's going
to be below where settlement was
yesterday up here that's that price at
2,55 and it's again referring to this
that's where trading
stopped yesterday and then it starts
here with regular trading hours but
between these two price points all day I
mean all night long we've had all kinds
of trading back and forth but when we
get close to 9:30 at 9:29 you can you
can see where we're going to be opening
in relative terms to the 4:14 PM Eastern
Time settlement price we're going to be
opening higher or lower and you can
guesstimate really is it going to be a
wide Gap and if it's not a wide Gap you
I I don't like really less than 40
handles if it's less than 40 handles I'm
I'm using other tools that's going to
you know help me for trading the morning
session or I'll just opt out and wait
till 10 o00 and I'll trade silver Bol
something like that so there's very
simple rules you see that it's not hard
it's not complicated but you have to
have conditions and understand what
those conditions are and the same thing
that we're seeing here is applicable to
the cfd market so you don't have to
stress about I don't trade Futures so I
don't know how to make this work for
me so because we have a very small gap
between those two price points
yesterday's settlement price and 930 is
first opening price tick that's this
candle's opening price where is that
happening well look at 929 look at that
candle where it's trading at before that
candle closes we're inside yesterday's
first presented fair value Gap aren't we
look at the Orange Box the only thing I
did
here is I took the same Gap that formed
the very first one on the one minute
chart I'm taking it all the way over
here because I want you to see
it that's this Candlestick right here at
9:38 that's the very first fair value
gap on
Thursday September 19th 2024 you
understand so the only thing I'm doing
is taking that Gap and I'm toggling on
the settings box here I'll go to
settings and over here where say Style
just click extend right if I don't
extend right you can see it's just that
Candlestick right there but when I click
on it like that it keeps printing it and
and posting it forward in in the future
so that way it's always going to be a
reference point for
me so by having that information you
want to know where you are in the last
three days with the first presented fair
value gy between 9:31 and 10:00 in the
morning because the algorithm's going to
refer back to that again and all you
have to do is look at what price has
been doing here you're going to tell me
that's buying and selling pressure and
everybody looks at that first fair value
gy everybody knew about that is that
what you're telling
me it's facade I mean think about it
these people out here they talk
nonsense oh everybody knew about that
Sam siden teaches that no he doesn't he
probably will
now make sure you take good notes Sam so
if we have
uh the opening here today at 9:30 it's
opening inside of
yesterday's first presented fair value
Gap so what does that
mean it's going to use that fair value
Gap not just this one and the first one
that prints in during time Distortion
may not be all that
influential and it might be useful next
week instead you understand
so we have to look at this
orange shaded area because that's
yesterday Thursday's first presentation
of a fair value got between 9:30 and 10
o'clock that's why I asked on Twitter I
said have you extended yesterday's or
Thursday's first presented fair value
Gap have you have you made it so it's
extending to the right on your
chart because if you're not doing that
you're going to miss everything that
occurs around this day
so when we're looking at opportunities
for setups to form when we're looking
for things that build
uh something that's predictable
something that you can
forecast something that you can
anticipate and not be
reacting people that do not know how
Price Books people that don't know how
these markets work are always going to
be reacting
if you're reacting to something that
means you didn't anticipate it that
means you didn't know it was going to
happen and that means you're not
informed and that means you're not smart
money now what I teach are Concepts to
help you predict you absolutely are
predicting the market you are predicting
it anyone that tells you you're not is
talking out their ass they have no idea
what they're doing and what they're
doing is they're making allowances for
themselves because they're not good at
doing it
so they have a a wide array of excuses
it Comforts them because they're not
going to be holding themselves to the
degree of accountability that other
people in the industry like myself and
my students if we're challenged you can
you do this we're right there at the
front of the line yes let me give you an
opportunity to see it for real let me
show you what you don't know
because we know what we know and
nobody's going to tell us it ain't
happening and we can do it in our own
hands and we're doing it better than any
other school of thought out there more
consistently and you can learn this you
can learn how to do this you don't just
watch me do it you have to go in the
charts in practice but you have to start
with these reference points and you see
by journaling them in the last three
days did did the first presented fair
value Gap two days ago did it have any
influence on the price
today these are questions you should go
in looking for and you're going to be
discovering that wow that was amazing
how that was just perfectly offered as a
setup and it had very little draw down
and it fired away bang you know 30 to 50
handles if not
more but you're all struggling looking
for
setups and they're right in front of you
if you just listen I'm telling you how
to find them so today what I was doing
is I was watching this initial fair
value Gap and anticipating this back and
forth time Distortion where it's just
going to be working what what is it
working well we we ran the initial
level of buy side that was over here
that was pre session so when we Wicked
above that over there it went back down
in and what is it
hitting today's opening price what is
the opening price at 9:30 it's the low
of the opening range Gap so watch what
it's doing it's opening here it swings
up to the high which just yesterday's
414 settlement price that's the high of
the opening range gap for today then it
trades through that to get liquidity
over here and then it trades back down
overlaps the low or the opening price
and then what does it do again it one
more time reaches more buy side that
maybe didn't get hit here they're going
one more pass in and they're dropping it
down again where's it going right down
to the opening range Gap
low if you're just looking at this okay
or you know you're a dingleberry and you
are out there trying to point to where
fair value gaps don't work and look at
this they get ran through they get ran
through it's designed to do that
it's designed to do that because you
don't know what the [__] you're talking
about there's logic behind these things
and you don't know what it is simply
because you can draw a rectangle in one
Candlestick that is not bridged with the
previous candle or the subsequent next
candle doesn't make it a fair value Gap
it makes no sense for anybody out there
to assume just because you think you see
it there it doesn't make it a fair value
capap just like every down closed candle
is not a bullish order block and every
every up candle is not a bearish order
block so it's
it's a little frustrating the teacher in
me gets frustrated because I know that
what what these people are doing is they
copped out they didn't want to go
through the process of really learning
how to do it so it's easier for them to
poke fun and say look it failed here but
I'm murdering these markets I'm doing it
in front of people and my students are
doing it and you and you can be one of
them and you don't have to like me as a
person I don't care we're not here to be
friends but I want you all to do well
and if you understand that this is what
this is going to do because of the day
it's Friday we have a very small gap
opening and we had a large range
yesterday so the morning session is
already going to be what more
complicated and challenging for a new
Trader it doesn't mean you can't trade
it it just means that when I talk I talk
in two schools of thought
my students that understand how to trade
the ones that have their model and they
don't need listen to me okay they're
more advanced or the people that are
just coming to me they don't know
anything when I say don't trade on
Mondays most of the time it's because I
don't want that new student to trade on
Mondays because they tend to be a little
bit more demanding in
experience when I say don't trade on
high news uh news events it doesn't mean
you can't trade on them if you know what
you're doing you just got to wait until
after the report hits then go in and
look for the inefficiencies or the
liquidities left but if you don't know
what you're doing if you don't even know
what an econ calendar is you can get out
there and get hurt really bad and I
don't want any of that to happen to any
of you so
because we have all those factors
today that first Gap is really of no
importance yet because it still has to
worry about yesterday's first fair value
Gap because we opened inside of
it this is a small little Gap this is a
much larger Gap and we have been using
it since yesterday over and over and
over again there was many trades over
the London session the European session
Asia's close overnight last night in
Asia there was trades around this Orange
Box they're there all the time and
you've never noticed them because
they've never been in any of your retail
books that's why you didn't see them
because if someone says hey look I just
Reed something they should see these
setups and they should be there before
1996 they should be there before 2016
for
sure and they aren't okay so forget
about it so in here once we got to
here's 950 okay that's this Candlestick
right there 950 now we're at the
time we're at the time when the market
will do what
spool now think about what has
transpired we had a nice up close week
we've had the market
open with a small opening range Gap 20
handles we opened in yesterday's first
presented fair value
Gap this Gap here is going to be the
least
important we went back and forth over
top of the opening range
Gap and yesterday's opening range Gap
did not even trade to its midpoint or
consequent encroachment it barely made
its way towards the upper quadrant so
there's a huge discount or a vacuum of
price where there was no buying and
selling
because it never went down into its Gap
yesterday at
much so because it's Friday and TGIF is
Thank God It's Friday meaning that it's
likely to have a 20 to 30% retracement
of what the total weekly range was so
there's a lot of things that could be
built into expecting the market to work
down below
yesterday's first presented fair value
Gap but you have to wait until until the
algorithm not the buying and selling
pressure kicking in it's the algorithm
okay it's the price engine that's going
to start offering lower prices and it
matters not how many people you see on a
a depth of Market or level two market
makers don't use that [__] because what
you're talking about you're you're
talking about a dealer you're not making
a market if as as a dealer you're
trading in the same price feed that
everybody else is you're not making that
price that price is what's out there
right now and you aren't delivering it
you're not doing that it's way above you
you have no idea what the hell's going
on and by understanding that these
things are electronically driven in
their algorithmic that means yes there's
going to be reflected time in sales that
says there was buyers at this price and
there were sellers at this price and
this was the amount of traded contracts
there but that's not that's not going to
have any lasting directional
influence it might be a couple ticks
here and there that that it you know you
it jumps to get those
orders but it's going to go lower
because it's driven to go lower it's
scripted and that's the part that most
of you are struggling
with I understand it it's a little scary
when you think about it because we don't
have a free market then we don't have a
free market and I'm glad we don't have a
free market because that's what makes it
advantageous that's why I can time this
stuff that's why I can explain it and
make a concept around it because it's
scripted you know what's going to like
occur unless there's manual intervention
so if there's things that are scripted
wouldn't it make sense that they're
going to repeat the same times of day
yes absolutely every top of the
hour first I'm sorry yeah 10 minutes
before you get to the top of the hour
that's in this case here it's 9:50 a.m.
and they last for 20 minutes so in that
20-minute interval what we're looking
for is okay now think it's Friday we
have a small Gap we have a large range
and we've already taken buy side here so
and we open inside of yesterday's first
presented fair value
Gap me getting to the point is this it's
more likely that it's going to spool at
950 to 1010
lower lower so if that's the case if
you're telling me that we're looking for
yesterday's larger Gap that didn't get
traded too much because we have a very
anemic small Gap here today well simply
just be aware of those levels but focus
on yesterday's Gap because there's more
opportunity for the market to want to go
down into that area because it's going
to offer efficient
delivery buying and selling is not
pushing price it doesn't matter how much
buying and selling is occurring if the
Market's going lower it's going lower
because it's going there because it's
driven there not by the selling not
because there's a lack of buyers it's
simply being taken there because it's
coded to do that and yes you'll see all
as as the transactions come in because
people are sentiment-driven
animals okay we we're greedy we're
scared we're fearful we're impulsive so
naturally yes yes we can look in all
these candlesticks and smart people with
hindsight can say look at this ict's
talking nonsense because all you have to
do is look at the volume profile and all
you have to do is look at the time in uh
uh time in sales and all you have to do
is look at level two you need that
[__] after it has happened you're
looking at that you're justifying
something after that's happened in the
depth of Market those ladders that show
you supposedly where like there's this
many buyers waiting above here at this
price or this many sellers waiting here
they're not all real
orders they're not all real orders so
you're being you're it's a spook
poofing there's been large institutions
that got themselves in trouble doing
that very thing so why would you look at
something where they're dangling carrots
when those carrots really aren't there
it's a mirage but see I know what I'm
looking for and I don't need a book map
I don't need those instruments out there
that tell you supposedly a pseudo amount
of contracts that are resting at a
specific price level above or below the
market price you don't need those things
you don't need them but I would have
loved having it in the beginning because
I didn't understand the concept of
liquidity but when you understand
liquidity you're going to get confused
by looking at those tools only and not
understanding what the algorithm is
doing just simply because there's a lot
of orders above the market doesn't mean
it's going to go up all you have to do
is study it all any given time any day
you'll see that there's a large pool of
orders that just simply aren't going to
get traded to and you're thinking okay
well they're not interested who's that
when you talk like that who is the they
but when I say the they you all get a
case of the ass like you know this guy's
a conspiracy nut but there's an
algorithm that delivers price and if you
can time when to anticipate the market
reacting a specific
way the condition is this the narrative
is this it's going to go lower when I
tweeted this morning I said focus on two
sside liquidity pools does that sound
bullish to you that means something
below the market
so again the direction was
right there's a short-term low there
there's a short-term low right there
there's a short-term low right there and
okay I used the easiest one that would
be below
here so that's this one here
this one I'm not too concerned about I
ain't worried about the fair value Gap
because if we're going to get down here
it's going to want to go below these
relative
equals so from up here at
950 I'm anticipating the market at that
time it's going to start it's going to
start moving in that direction that's
what a macro is a macro is a small list
of directives that this program because
that's all it is it start
s processing and delivering on the basis
of how fast it's told to do it how many
times it has to stop and create this
scenario here which is time Distortion
you are all told that it's chop or it's
consolidation or its indecisiveness it's
it knows it knows exactly what it's
doing
folks it know it knows exactly what it's
doing it has a list of directions and
it's following it that's all it does
okay and this engine that delivers and
manipulates price we all are watching a
video
game and we have no control with our
buying and selling if we could if we had
that much influence because of our
buying and selling we could crash the
market we could send it to the moon any
given
day we could do that there's enough
people in the world that that can
happen
think but when there is a perf
opportunity to screw people over they
will manually intervene and that's how
you get the GameStop in the Blackberry
in the AMC
Theaters Reddit they got together and
they said look we're gonna we're going
to screw all the hedge funds well the
hedge funds they aren't controlling
price they're just big players in it but
they they don't know what they're doing
they're just in there gambling with
large Pockets Deep Pockets
but when you have the ability to control
price and you say okay there's a whole
bunch of suckers out there reading
Reddit and they're all going to start
piling in and buying it up okay
wonderful they'll buy too because
they're greedy they the hand and what
they'll do is they'll offer big huge
skips in pricing where the price is is
gapping up like crazy because they know
that there's going to be a fevered Pitch
to do do what buy it it's going to keep
going up it's going to keep going up and
the more people on Reddit the more
people on Twitter the more people on
Instagram that were talking about those
stocks which I said don't touch them
don't touch them that's a that's a
Ponzi the market makers were literally
building in a premium they were just
literally offering higher higher higher
and they were getting traded at that's
the same principle here it's just being
slowed down to a manner where it's it
doesn't look like except for normal
price delivery it's not shocking it's
not jarring now there's days like with
OMC there's nonfarm payroll CPI PPI
those types of news drivers are the same
event that You' seen happen in AMC
Blackberry
um and
GameStop that's the same thing that's
the same thing that happen with
Bitcoin that's all that you watch that
happen like that that's how I timed it
when I told you and years ago I said it
ain't going to go to 20,000 it's going
to go to 6,000 it's going to go to 3,000
and I was right and then I said I'll
tell you when it's going to go to 20,000
and I did then I told you when it's
going to go to 30 and 60 and right when
we got to 70,000 I said we're we're done
and then it traded
lower yes there's a meme out there where
I said it's going to go to $100 because
I ultimately know it's going to it's
going to be worthless later
on but right now it's a wonderful little
Ponzi for people to get cooked
in but the market is slowing that Ponzi
scheme
down where it is allowing people to go
into these markets and provide liquidity
for people that use them professionally
there's always going to be someone out
here trading and it only takes one
contract to trade and make that price
book on your chart but that's not buying
and selling pressure if the for instance
let me suspend your dis dis belief for a
second okay just for the sake of having
a conversation here cuz if you don't
give me this you might as well just turn
the video
off let's just say for the sake of
argument that at 950 to 1010 something
artificial some artificial intelligence
starts a
program and it starts offering lower
prices and it doesn't matter how many
people come in to buy it it's just going
to keep going lower offering lower
prices lower prices what do you think
that does well for people that want to
buy it they're thinking wow that's
cheaper now let me buy it oh wow it's
down at this support level let me buy it
oh it's at this old high let me buy it
oh it went below here so we're going to
do some of those uh you know real tricks
where you can buy sell stops you because
that's what the you know crafty Traders
do well it just keeps going
lower and it keeps going lower below
that what about the support that was
supposed to be here it just keeps going
lower so who's right what school of
thoughts right here
mine this algorithm is re repricing
that's all it's doing but what happens
is the people that know this is
occurring the people that learn from me
the people out there actually using it
too outside of my own hands and
influence now because they learned it
they can be short in this
move and they can
profit without any worry about being a
pattern an old archaic methodology no W
off no samid and stuff no Gan no Elliot
wave none of that stuff no Hearst Cycles
none of that none of that
stuff it's simply understanding time
there you go and price price is going to
behave like this it's going to start
rebooking and delivering to sells side
that's time and price Theory ICT style
we're not doing diagonal trend lines
we're not doing geogra uh geometry and
and all kinds of uh pattern stuff in the
that's all it's nonsense that's a
religion that's all religious thought
process when you're looking at price
price patterns and you think this is
somehow having an influence it has an
influence over people buying and selling
but that buying and selling that these
people are doing has absolutely no
bearing on what these artificially
delivered markets are
doing so how can we capitalize on
that well if you're inside this opening
range between 9:30 and 10 o'
the time for it to start going lower is
now at hand at at 950 now we want to see
it trade lower I want to see it go
through today's fair value Gap because
it's time to do so we've already trapped
Traders up
here so now it's going to attack what
this pool of liquidity right there that
hasn't been traded to yet let me take
these vertical lines off because I don't
want you thinking the Candlestick Wicks
or
anything this is some good [__] I know I
wish I would have known this when I
first started so rate below here we're
targeting that we're targeting that
because there's going to be what what's
resting below there cell stops Somebody
went long there and that's all the
algorithm needs to know is there was a
low here so it's going to keep dropping
down till it gets to here oh there's a
lot of buyers it's real cheap doesn't
matter it's going to keep going lower
because it knows its list of directives
that's what a macro is it's a short
little program script that it starts
doing something specifically and what it
specifically doing is going to the
liquidity pools that I'm telling you
it's going to go to now let I'll let you
figure out how that works so when it
drops here and here and in the relative
equal lows over
here right
there we can now anticipate that once we
get through the bottom of this fair
value Gap I've
already removed my interest in it I just
want to see it trade below it if it were
to trade back up to it and bump it like
an inversion fair value gy all the
better fine but because of this day
being manipulated like it is because of
all the factors Friday small opening
range Gap large range yesterday so many
things and we open inside of yesterday's
first presented fair value Gap that's a
huge list of things that I need this to
start moving in my favor I'm not a
breakout Trader
that you'll see clearly where I'm
getting in it I'm not I'm not breaking
out to the downside and going short
based on
that because I didn't want my Gap shown
like this I wanted to take away that
volume imbalance which is this
candlesticks close and this candlesticks
open I'm going to take that away and put
it just on the wick like that so now I'm
showing this candles sticks low this
candlestick's high and I'm ignoring this
volume imbalance because it's the least
impactful or important thing because
this Gap the first presented fair value
Gap from yesterday we opened in it so
it's been using it so the algorithm is
tipping its hand saying this is the
level I'm working with it's the high of
it the upper quadrant the middle the
lower quadrant and the low they're very
specific prices it's not a
Zone when we're bearish we want to see
it not go back in the upper half once it
goes down what does that look like well
because I looking at the volume IM
balance here I can then see this as a
breakaway gap which is what you'll see
in the video where I I'll annotate it
okay I'll show you that this is what I'm
viewing this as a breakaway Gap meaning
that because it's the time of the market
wanting to rebook and price lower and it
doesn't have any effect on the buying
and selling influence there's no
influence by buyers and sellers causing
that it's just artificially being
delivered lower to take liquidity in
here what liquidity is in this area here
nobody's nobody's actively going in and
placing big bets there but there
absolutely was orders resting Above This
High which they've already worked there
so what's the opposing liquidity if this
is the buy side that was taken where's
the nearest obvious sells side liquidity
pool right there at that
low so the algorithm doesn't know how
many contracts there are it doesn't know
it doesn't need to know that it just
knows that that low hasn't been traded
to so let's start driving lower and the
macro is this it looks back through the
previous
session that's all it's doing folks it's
very simple it's going back through the
previous session
overnight yesterday afternoon this
morning London Asia it's just cycling
back through the previous session that's
all these things are doing and it's easy
it cannot hide it from you I don't know
why you guys are fighting it you're
you're arm wrestling me because you want
to hold on to your little [__]
Concepts retail
horeshit every ret ret Trader is looking
for something in here moving average
crossover some kind of [__] Golden
Cross that's dumb it's stupid you you
have no advantage in that you have every
reason to get into a trade and believe
this is why you have made that decision
but that decision has no bearing on why
the price is going to go up or down I'm
telling you what it's
doing this Gap here tells me that I'm
absolutely seeing what I expect to see
which is it's going to drive down to
here so once we enter with this
Candlestick here inside this Orange Box
here that's yesterday's first traded or
I'm sorry first presented fair value gap
between 9:30 and 10
o' once it trades down like this I'm
waiting for it to come right back up and
get the high of it so essentially what
am I doing I'm selling short when the
Market's going up on an uptick that's
what high frequency trading algorithms
do that's what smart money does that's
what large fund Traders do they cannot
sell short on a down tick they have to
wait for an uptick some of them have
filters where they have to wait for
price to move up for a certain threshold
and then they can start going in and
selling short or dropping down for a
certain measure of time or percentage
before they can start buying but you're
not privy at all that stuff because it
ain't in your books okay but that's the
real stuff that's the real things that
go on so if we can anticipate the market
trading in this Candlestick here when it
goes up in into the high I have an
opportunity to do it there or I have an
opportunity to do it right there and
then what happens it breaks lower And
Trades to the middle for consequent
approachment of that shaded Orange area
that's yesterday's first presented fair
value Gap once it does this it gives the
a breakaway Gap it runs into it gives an
opportunity to trade to the top of it
and then goes to the midp part or
consequent cor of it middle and goes
down below it it should never listen
okay okay this is never ever ever
repeated at anywhere else you can say it
it is but find it in a book and get your
money because nobody's able to do it
just talking about what it looks like
and what it is this Candlestick here we
go right up and hits the middle for
consequent encouragement and then we
leave we leave that previous day's first
presented fair value G so now watch
here's that Candlestick right here we
trade into it and hit consequent
encroachment of yesterday's first
presented fair value G the next
candle look where my entry is you see
that watch watch when I hover top of see
it it's at the high of yesterday's first
fair value
Gap it's random
right but ICT why didn't you trade in
the fair value Gap why didn't you do
something else because I know what I'm
doing I know what I'm looking for okay
so I'm entering at the high of that Gap
and then I know I'm I'm really on side
because I have the Breakaway Gap I'm in
time the time of the market being
delivered algorithmically I know that
everything is in my favor that this is
going to go lower contrast that with I
hope my harmonic pattern here I hope my
rabid platypus [__] pattern okay I
hope that it my moving averages don't
get pierced through I hope my overbought
stochastics or Divergence is going to be
uh profitable this time you are worrying
about things that you can't control I am
believing something that I know controls
chice who has the greater
Faith why do you think I talk the way I
talk it sounds arrogant doesn't it
sounds egotistical narcissistic that's
all the descriptive adjectives that
people place on me and you know what
that means I'm getting complimented
that's how I take it because you see
something in me and my students because
we are
doers we are not talkers we are [__]
doers we know exactly what we're looking
for we're calm we're collected and cool
but when some Joker comes stepping up
here and talking some nonsense about
retail this and Retail that or
something's better something that please
come come and get your ass sorted let's
go because I will show you you know
nothing and I'll be polite about it I'll
be polite about it because I know if you
see it and you taste
it you're convinced and you're going to
be wanting to know how the hell I did it
how the hell did he do that how the hell
does he know that stuff right it's in my
YouTube channel it's in Long discussions
like this video here it's in your eyes
you're thinking it's taking too much
time it's taking so much time but I'm
teaching you I'm showing you this is
what you're supposed to be looking for
because if there is an algorithm it's
going to do these things every single
day every single day it's going to
repeat these same types of
things getting short here then it trades
down it does
not take the relative equal lows out yet
on this drop down here but what does it
do it trades all the way back up to some
random
level it's the low of yesterday's first
presented fair value Gap
that Candlestick hitting it that's the
first Candlestick it touches it because
I'm Marketing in you can see this I have
to do the market order because I have
people believing that it's Market replay
and you can't use the upper lefthand
corner buttons for the buying and
selling on Market replay because they're
down somewhere over
here so I do it that way I could have
very very precise entries if I'm using
limit orders and I will be doing limit
orders in this mentorship so that way
you can see how to get really good tight
entries so that way your stops can be a
little bit more meaningful in terms of
managing the risk so I I'll teach you
how to be more precise about your
entries but Caleb doesn't need to know
that yet he just needs to know how to
engage price and see what it's like to
get in and watch what price does
afterwards so getting in there and then
ultimately it trades back down and goes
to that see that little tick right here
that's below the relative equal lows
over here so entering here at the
top of yesterday's fair value
Gap and getting out at the low
underneath the relative Eagle loads I
gave you on
Twitter that's not Market reply folks
okay this is all the really real [__]
okay just because I'm teaching in a demo
or a paper trading account for my own
personal protection because I'm not
licensed to give trade advice all I'm
talking to you about is how I know these
candlesticks are going to do certain
things I am not promising that it's
going to make you money I can't do that
I can't promise that you're going to get
rich I can't but I can promise you that
you're going to learn how to read these
candlesticks better than anybody else
can teach you and some have my some of
my students have gotten really good at
it and they said I'm going to make my
own decision and he are for the people
that left this comment how do you
know when to trade with real money
you'll know I'm never going to tell you
you're ready to trade with real money
you're going to know because you're so
bored of doing it in paper and it's so
consistent the natural progression is
going to be you're going to try try and
see what
happens and I never tell you to do that
but when you feel like you're going to
do it and you don't even need to ask
somebody else's opinion then that's when
you're going to be ready but
unfortunately people see a video or they
watch a group of people trading and they
get caught up in the frenzy of them
being right once in a while and that's
unfortunately what happens when you
watch these influencers that are live
streaming they have affiliate Links at
the bottom and not all of them are
[__] but they all do have the same
characteristic they're out there putting
it in front of you
and you because you have selective site
selective hearing much like trolls they
don't see the proof that I'm providing
they don't see all the profitable
students they don't see it they don't
want to see
it the people that watch these other
live streamers and when they get it
right they think wow if I would have did
that I could have made that money today
and then what they do is they pay for
the affiliate link to get a funded
account Challenge and they go in they
file the same person tomorrow and the
luck that they had the previous day
because that's 99% of what you're
seeing they f in front of you and you
copied them you don't have any idea why
they took the trade but you're waiting
for that feel good warm and fuzzy see I
don't do that I'm teaching you how to do
this on your own because no one's going
to tell me that I haven't created
profitable students because it's all
over
place and once you are a profitable
student no one's going to tell you what
you've learned is made up
contrived nonsense make believe okay
they're going to give you every excuse
but you're the one making money you're
the one that stops your job and you stay
home and you live a life that's
different and they're going to be hating
you any chance that they can have to say
something negative at that time who
cares what they say but in the beginning
you have to just weigh it out who's
doing what I'm teaching you for
free there's no obligation for you to
come back to my YouTube channel there's
zero
obligation but I keep producing don't I
and you can't get away from me because
now the bug has bit you and when you
taste and see this stuff happen in your
own in your own
hands it's over for you you'll never
want to look at the market any other way
and you're going to want to learn more
and then you become addicted to it and
you can't be an addict without ICT in
the
name you're one of the
brood and that's unfortunately on the
outside looks like a cult but I don't
have any control over you I'm giving you
the freedom I'm giving you the freedom
to have an independent thought process
that allows you to make your future
whatever you want it to
be and that's exciting so anyway I did a
lot of uh Trail stop losses for the
purposes of showing Caleb and where I
place the stop would be based on what
his expectation would be in terms of
placing a stop loss and you'll see that
in the video but these that's what this
is here that's being stopped out and
then that's being stopped out and
then I went back in this is not
something for him this is me because I
knew I was going to talk about this
today with y'all is this just me
twisting a
knife so over here if you look at this
Candlestick right
there this long lowest Candlestick let
me get it out of the the view of my
little Watermark
here this this Candlestick right here is
the lowest of all the lows in here
before we see this drop down can you
agree with that this one here is not not
being factored yet not for my decision
while I'm watching the candlesticks over
here I'm looking at that one so what I'm
seeing is
this I'm measuring the body down to the
low okay if you ever see my charts have
one single line and it just looks like
it's floating out there around nothing
this is anchored to nothing that makes
any sense if you look back at of my old
recordings even stuff on baby Pips
you'll see me anchoring there and that's
the con encouragement of this discount
Wick if I'm
bearish I can enter at that
price see that tick right here
watch see that what's the price of the
consequent corion of that wiip right
there
point2 tell me who is Daddy you're damn
right it's Poppy ICT it's Poppy ICT baby
it's repeating phenomenon of precision
perfect it's perfect getting at the high
of yesterday's fair value Gap that
nobody would have been looking at it
Chris Lor wouldn't have been talking
about that yesterday and into today nope
wouldn't happened white off wouldn't
have done it nobody getting out below
the uh the shortterm low relative equal
lows over
here there but now here I know that
we're going to dig a little bit
deeper so this level
here let's scroll on over here and find
out what that mystery
is I know you love it don't you I can't
wait to trade this way I know what do
you think this
is that looks random doesn't it all this
is is a same thing it's the consequent
encroachment of that discount Wick but
now I'm going to treat that as a Target
so now what is that
price
93050 so I need that price or lower
and there's my exit right there slipped
a little
bit
1993.
75 so that's not bad it's pretty close
right close enough for government work
right but all this drop here I don't
need that you don't need that either and
then what does it do it starts to Rally
right back up
so all these things drawing right back
up
into yesterday's first presented fair
value G
drops rallies back up what it working
yesterday's fair value Gap but
now late in the
day we're returning
to First fair value Gap that's true
value on The Daily range your first
presented fair value
gap between 9:30 and 10 o'clock you need
to know what that is because the
algorithm is going to refer back to it
unless it's a trending day it's going to
refer back to
it I have done so many trades without
pointing this to you but if you go back
and look at them you're going to see
that this is a lot of what I'm
doing and again because I never intended
to teach it to you and you can be mad at
me and say I'm Anna ass oh you're a dick
you should have you should have taught
this sooner just be thankful that I am
just be appreciative that my son is is
encouraging me to do this because none
of you could have encouraged me enough
to do it I never wanted to do it but he
just said look just let him see it so
you're seeing it so anyway that's the
business on that now real quick let's
get in through the uh the the US
100 the the Gap here
414 previous day and 9:30 opening price
we don't have the um uh what is it
us 100
and I'm just going to use this one I I'm
not saying that that's a good broker I'm
not saying that you should trade through
them I'm just saying that this is
something that you need to determine on
your own and if you do what I'm showing
you here you should be able to track
price as close as you can without using
the actual Futures market so if we pull
that up like this you can already see
that I have the opening price at 930
there's the opening price at 9:30 and
this settlement price here is
yesterday's same
414 closing so when we get to the
Candlestick at 414 yesterday
that's this Candlestick right there at
414 the closing price so while we don't
have the break and trading between 4:15
to 6 o'clock restart and we don't have
this the break from 4:15 yesterday to
9:30 in the morning in the cfd market
which is what this is it is not
necessary all you have to do is know the
the same price points and you'll have
the same information here
now the Gap the first
gap for
today there is a volume imbalance here
and there's a volume imbalance
here two schools of tha here if you are
using a cfd always include your volume
imbalances always don't do what I did
today because that's this experience
always include them that's why I teach
if you see a fair value Gap always
include the volume in Balance because of
cfd and Futures I'm sorry X
pairs your Brokers are going to screw
you and that's just the truth and you're
going to have different pricing so if
you don't include the volume in balances
you're not going to have a true
depiction of what you should be focusing
on so you can see here with the volume
in balances included and that means that
this candle is closed the body's top to
the next candle's open that little
separation that's the volume of balance
just like this separation between this
candlestick's closed or the high part of
the body not the wick and then the
opening on this Candlestick there's a
small look at look like
this see that separation between the two
bodies there and the separation right
here that's my volume of bounds that's
not in any other books okay that's
that's you seeing what the what the
algorithm will refer back
to mark it here at uh 950 that's the
macro time 951 start going lower
targeting cell side
targeting relative equal lows over here
same stuff happened over
here ain't this a wick that I just
talked about on the future contract
midpoint of that Wick get short
there and it
drops everything's the same okay so if
you're trading with cfds all you have to
do is use the times because that's the
most important thing the times I'm
telling you at specific price points
because it's first the time and then
what price around that time if you do
the same things I'm showing you here
with the cfd markets and the same thing
is for us30 if you want to trade the Dow
if you want to trade the US 500 that's
the equivalent to the S&P Market just in
a cftd format the same thing it's it's
the same stuff folks you're just not
seeing the same price because clearly
they're not going to
agree but uh that's all I wanted to show
you today because my battery is warning
me that I'm getting ready
see my laptop shut down and I used that
as my timer so I was going to go as long
as I could and we came all the way back
up to here and cleared out the high of
the day
so hopefully you found this in one
sightful hopefully you can calm down a
little bit if you're a cfd Trader and
you're still in the Forex world you can
do everything that I'm doing here with
reading price in that cfd you just need
to know how to navigate your chart
that's all and it's all we showed here
today
and we will be back at it again next
week and I'm going to have homework for
you every single night so it's going to
feel like University all over again
enjoy your weekend I'm going to have a
Twitter space tomorrow it'll probably be
a real short one and uh just bring some
Road snacks and enjoy your weekend and
I'll talk to you tomorrow Lord will